# DrugDisc

Computational strategies have been used to expedite and reduce the cost of the process of drug discovery (1) by identification of lead compounds that have strong affinity for their respective target molecules. Currently, high-throughput techniques are being used to screen drugs. The order of magnitude of the drugs that can be tested in a lab through this method is 106 (2). This means that the time for drug searching becomes really large and inefficient. In fact, the current drug-discovery process can take up to 12–16 years of immense research, involve big financial investments, and consists of pre-clinical and clinical trials before a molecule can be chosen as a drug (3). In this project, three elaborate stages have been computationally represented: the generation of novel molecules, the prediction and calculation of molecular properties, and the classification of these molecules as active or not active with respect to a particular target disease. Each of these stages was accomplished by the use of a Long-Short Term Memory model auto-encoder built through Keras and Tensorflow (4)(5), Rdkit libraries and a Random Forest regressor, and a Random Forest classifier (6) respectively (multiple other models were tested too). The data was imported from ChemBL and consists of active drugs for lung carcinomas. To create and train models the ChemBL dataset was split into train data and test data, and the model was then asked to predict the response variables based on a set of predictor variables. The LSTM was used in generation of drug-like compounds and then the output was filtered to select compounds that can chemically exist using an Rdkit Filter and molecules were sanitized using the same software (7). These original set of molecules were used to create some structural variants using chemistry knowledge (halogen substitution, alkyl group addition, etc) and then 10 were sampled randomly. Next, Rdkit was utilized in order to predict the value of some chemical properties and a Random Forest Regressor was used to predict properties that could not be predicted using Rdkit. These were input to a Random Forest  Classifier in order to predict if the drug-like compound is a potential candidate against the lung carcinoma. The ligand-protein binding affinity can be also predicted using docking programs (AutoDock Vina) to provide affinity values for different conformations of the protein and the target molecule (various target molecules found in the ChemBL database will be sampled) (8). Additionally, a potential use of an evolutionary algorithm has been experimented in the extension. This algorithm is usually used with standard neural networks in drug compound identification (9). In this in silico study, the evolutionary algorithm will be used to make a more robust drug activity prediction model.

Keywords: Long-Short Term Memory, auto-encoders, Random Forest, docking programs, evolutional algorithms, neural networks.
